# jc1
<h3>A Go implementation of the JC1 pseudo random byte generator by John C. Craig.</h3>

John C. Craig<br/>
jcc...@sprynet.com<br/>
June 23, 1996
<p>This paper presents a new and efficient pseudorandom byte generator algorithm, of interest for encryption and statistical analysis purposes.</p>
<p>Conceptually, this algorithm is a function that can be thought of as a black box with one input and one output. Any byte goes in, and a much more random, but repeatable, byte comes out. The output sequence passes all statistical tests used by the author, even if all input bytes are 0's or any other non-random pattern. As soon as one of the input bytes is changed in even one bit position, the output sequence immediately diverges to a completely different sequence.</p>
<p>Given an array <code>a[256]</code>, two "pointer" (index) variables <code>p</code> and <code>q</code>, and a passed-in byte of <code>x</code>, here's the core algorithm in C. (All variables are unsigned char, and all intermediate values are therefore mod 256)...
<code>
unsigned char jc1( unsigned char x )
{
  q+=(a[++p]+=x);
  a[p]+=(a[q]+p);
  return( a[p] );
}
</code>
Each call to the JC1 function passes in a byte value of <code>x</code>, and the byte <code>a[p]</code> is returned as the next pseudorandom byte in the generated output sequence. <code>p</code> is incremented to make sure all array locations are hit, <code>q</code> is manipulated in a way that randomizes the internal state of the generator, and the addition of <code>p</code> into <code>a[p]</code> in the second line prevents any short loops.</p>
<p>There are many ways to initialize and shuffle this generator, but I've pinned down the following very simple routines to help make analysis easier.
<ul>
<li>To initialize the generator simply fill the array <code>a[]</code> with bytes 0 to 255, and set <code>p</code> and <code>q</code> to 0.</li>
<li>To load the generator to a unique state, initialize it and then pass in each byte x of a key of any length.</li>
<li>To shuffle the generator's internal state, load it with a key as described above, then call JC1 256 times, passing it the values 0 to 255...
<code>
for( i=0; i&lt;256; i++ )
  jc1(i);
</code>
</li>
<li>To encipher (or decipher) a byte stream using a key, perform the three steps just described, then XOR each byte of JC1's output with each byte of the message.  Pass a fixed or known value for the x input to JC1 during this XOR process. Zero works fine.</li>
<li>To hash a message, initialize JC1, feed in the message's bytes as though it were a key, do a shuffle, and collect the next n bytes of JC1's output as the n- byte hash. Similarly, a checksum for a file can be generated by feeding the bytes of the file into JC1, then collect the next n bytes of output as an n-byte checksum.</li>
<li>To generate pseudo-random bytes I feed JC1 the bytes from any unique source of bytes (an image file, sound file, system keyboard and mouse timing bytes, etc.), do a shuffle, and collect the next n bytes of output.  The input bytes do not need to be random, just unique.</li>
</ul>
<p>JC1 can be in about 256! x 256<sup>2</sup> unique states, but there's a simple way to greatly increase the number of states. Feed the output bytes from JC1 to a second JC1 stage. If the security and unpredictableness of one JC1 stage proves to be good, then multiple stages will probably greatly increase the "randomness" and security of the generated output bytes. JC1 might be very easily implemented in hardware as a simple chip, in which case the chaining of chips in a serial fashion might be highly efficient.</p>
<p>The algorithm is very tight and very fast in C.  By changing all variables to unsigned int, and dimensioning the array to 65536, the generator immediately becomes a pseudo-random 16-bit word generator, with no other changes to the algorithm. The byte-sized implementation presented here is simpler for analysis, however, and appears to generate sequences of extremely long length anyway.</p>
<p>This algorithm is original with the author, and was created during the development of encryption software over the past few years. JC1 is now in the public domain. The author wishes only that the designation "JC1" be mentioned wherever this algorithm is used.  Any feedback to the author as to the security, randomness, suitability, or any discovered problems with the JC1 algorithm would be greatly appreciated.</p>
<p>Thank you!</p>
